my name is captain Joel Dickey and I'm
down here in Big Pine Key Florida and
I'm here with Lewis Cahill from geek and
gasoline and I'm going to teach you guys
how to build your line speed when you're
fishing flats in the keys or for any
where's Mexico Bahamas wherever you're
sight fishing for saltwater fish line
speed is the most important thing
especially when you have windy
conditions and what you're going to want
to do and this is what I tell all my
clients you're going to want to take out
about 40 feet of line this doesn't
matter if you're in your yard out on a
pond whatever and essentially take 40
feet of line and I want you to start
casting alright now when you begin
casting the 40 feet of line start out
real slow and what you're going to do is
start forming nice tight loops okay now
when you're forming nice tight loops on
the 40 feet of cast I don't want you to
lengthen your line at all but when you
start forming nice tight loose start
speeding up
now speed up every four five cast okay
now this is going to do a couple things
first off its going to teach you two how
to form a proper loop and it's also
going to bring a build your casting
strengths okay
now also speed up keep speeding up speed
up to fast as you possibly can go
without now once you tire out sit back
up okay now if during any time you
create a tailing loop
be sure to slow back down start forming
that tight loop again and then once you
start forming your tight loop again
speed back up we want to start out real
slow again
form a nice tight loop just like I'm
doing right here speed up speed your
stroke speed your haul up speed up small
make sure you don't tell now once you
tell slow back down where you're not
tailing the line form your loop and then
speed up again
and that's how you build LAN speed